# A-Case-for-ERA-and-Social-Justice
Class, Social Exploitation, and ERA. 

The plight of underrepresented and exploited groups in the United States is historically intertwined with class. 

Slavery, Colonization, and Capitalism

Across racial, gendered, and generational lines, collective injustice bridges divisions between the working class and gives power to resist against those who control and coordinate production (Text summarized from thesetimes.com). Race and class are intimately intertwined, with race being core to the modern capitalist process. The institution of American slavery is now just two lifetimes removed (Desmond, 2019) and laid the basis for American economic growth (Mintz). Goods produced by slaves and controlled by slave masters laid the economic foundation of the United States in the 1800’s. Slavery started in 1619 (History.com Editors, 2009)  in the United States and by the early 1800s, the South was growing 60% of the world’s cotton and provided the overwhelmingly majority of cotton consumed by the British textile industry. The North capitalized on slavery and provided services for the South to continue producing cotton. Slavery in itself paid for textiles, iron, and capital that grew the United States into the second biggest industrial power in the world (Lockhart, 2019).

The US maintained the space and capital for cotton production and slave labor by expropriating Native American land and committing genocide against Native people. For context, in 1800, Native Americans made up about 15% of the US population (roughly the same amount that African Americans make up today) and by 1900, they made up .05% of the population. European settlers killed 90% of Native Americans upon arrival in the US (PBS, 2021) and from 1776 up until now,  1.5 billion acres of land have been stolen from them (Haselby, 2020).

These elements of the United States’ upbringings don’t only highlight the genocide and exploitation its committed, but it required them in order to become the capitalistic society it is today. By the Civil War, the combined value of slaves outweighed exceeded that of all the nation’s factories and railroads. As Matthew Desmond summarizes in the New York Times, Mississippi Valley was home to more millionaires per capita than anywhere else in the United States. (Desmond, 2019). Exploitation and genocide arguably laid the foundation of the United States’ rise as a capitalistic society.

The legacy of American Slavery or America’s “original sin” manifests itself in the livelihoods African Americans. Systems that disproportionally impact African Americans and inflict violence upon them like mass incarceration, medical racism, the racial wealth gap, and others lay roots in slavery and have lasting impacts today. The legacy of colonization and genocide against Native Americans uniquely impacts Native communities and is exemplified through the historical trauma Native Americans face and US policies that have enabled horrid living conditions on reservations (Native Partnership, 2021), impoverishment (PowWows, 2021), and the nearing extinction of many Native tongues (Redwing, 2021).

The plight of abuses by the United States against Native and African Americans can only be joined by the historic and violent treatment of the Chinese and Japanese, Filipinos (Leon, 2020), Arabs, Iranians (Minority Rights, 2021), Indians (Badrinathan et. al, 2021), Hawaiians (Malfer, 2019), Latinos (Mosley, 2019), the Jewish (PBS, 2021), and every minoritized community US.
Racism and exploitation is deeply embedded in American social institutions. From the inhumane abuse inflicted on Chinese Americans during the gold rush to forced deportation and segregation of Mexican Americans, these two systems have defined and influenced the experience of minorities in the US. 


Working class, Unions, and Class Struggle 

Up until recent times, white men have made up the working class and been the face of the American working class. The Labor Movement specifically bolstered this image during the American Labor Movement. The American Federation of Labor, railroad brothers, and other unions were all headed by white males in the 1900s and catered their strikes and demands to fit the needs of their members, white men. Just as an example, labor laws like the Fair Labor Standard Act excluded domestic, agricultural, and tipped workers, which many African Americans were at the time. The National Industry Recovery Act excluded black workers from receiving public relief. Southern States also excluded African Americans from participating in Social Security. Though Black unions existed, laws enacted in congress were not always accessible Black workers to take advantage of.

Black unions such as the Brotherhood of the Sleeping Car Porters were able to demand Black workers have access to production jobs in the mid 1900s however, when Blacks in Detroit were promoted to these positions, white workers began to strike. The same predicament began to happen in steel plants and transit unions across the country shortly after. “Hate strikes” were suppressed by the Congress of Industrial Leaders, but racial tensions between white and black workers never left (AFL-CIO, 2021). The Civil Rights movement of the 1960s was a highly controversial time for Americans. After John F. Kennedy and Malcom X’s assassination, ‘the long hot summer’ of 1967 was filled with white police violence in Black neighborhoods and riots in cities like Detroit and Newark. Union membership fell. 

Post 1960s and on to the Nixon presidency, fearmongering became a common political strategy for conservative politicians. The Nixon presidency popularized terms like the “silent majority” and messaged for voters to undermine Civil Rights protections. President Carter after him deregulated unionized industries like trucking and Reagan cut anti-poverty programs. 




Today, the majority of Americans between 18 and 64 in the labor force are working class (Wilson, 2016). African Americans and Latinos are increasingly joining the working class (Mirsa, 2017) and by 2032, most of the working class will comprise of minorities. Although the face of the working class has historically been dominated by white men, the actual demographics of this group are diversifying and creating a minority-majority over time. Union membership has consistently declined since the 1980s (Ivanova, 2019), however, recently a resurgence in the labor movement has begun during COVID with the notable attempt to unionize Amazon in Louisiana, the more recent Kaiser strike in the northwest and west coast, and the great resignation which has lasted throughout the pandemic. 

Class Struggle

American workers are in a resurgence of class struggle. After adjusting for inflation, wages made by Americans today have the same purchasing power they did 1978 (Desilver, 2021). If inflation since 1968 was accounted for, the average minimum wage would be $24 an hour compared to the current $7.50 an hour (AFLO-CIO, 2021). If wages were rising the same amount each year, that would mean wages have been going up a mere 3.2% per year since 1968. The decline in labor union participation has contributed to the decline in wages as well as benefit costs, globalization, and technology advancements. 

Meanwhile, prices for housing in the US have kept up with inflation, increasing at a rate of 4.17% per year. Housing today is over 800% higher than it was in 1967 (in2013dollars, 2021). Home ownership has decreased among young adults between 1960-2017, with most renters reporting they would buy a home if they had the financial means to do so (Lee, et al., 2020). Median rent rates have also become increasingly expensive, with rates outpacing renters income for the past 20 years (Mazarra, 2019).

In 2019, there were 25 work stoppages in the US with over 1,000 workers, making this the largest in 20 years. Nearly half a million workers participated in work stoppages including 46,000 who participated in the General Motors strike. In September, hundreds of Kaiser engineers in the Bay Area went on strike for better wages and over 2,000 mental health clinicians striked with them in solidarity in just last month (Torrez, 2021). Workers around the  Since 2008, the wealthiest people in the nation have become far wealthier than workers. The 400 richest people in the US have more wealth than the bottom 64% (Kishore,2020) Over the course of the pandemic from March 2020 to August 2021, the wealth of billionaires in the U.S. increased by 62% (Collins, 2021). The rising wealth of the elite coupled with continued struggle in America’s working class have contributed to an ongoing class struggle between the working class or proletariat, as Karl Marx would describe it, and the elite, or bourgeoisie. 






ERA 
The Earth Reserve Framework (ERA) serves as a means to provide stability to any monetary unit. The Framework is designed to result in a positive relationship between currency units and the Earth Reserve. The Earth Reserve improves as currency units become more expensive. If you think about it, the more projects that are enhancing ecosystem integrity that are built, the more resource availability the earth has.

ERA provides a new sort of digital deposit/digital asset. Instead of anchoring to physical commodities, like those in the current market, ERA anchors to the earth itself, using independently verifiable resources. It  possible for anyone to check the mount of clouds cover over an area, the type and density of vegetation in a region, and many characteristics of earths ecoregions.

A case can be made for how ERA operates in themes of social justice class exploitation, and capitalism, because it uses these independently verifiable resources. Ideally, a ‘project investor’ would register a project the enhances ecosystem integrity and resource availability, and then an ERA auditor would verify and analyze the actual outcomes of the project. Based off the audit, a ERA Operation Node, or a ‘bank’ as we’d call it, would issue a ‘deposit receipt’ or an amount of money that reflects the aggregate intrinsic value of the project over 75 years. In terms of environmental benefit, ERA presents a sure sound method to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, incentivize clean technology, promote green infrastructure, and promote jobs within the environmental sector. The framework also results in a need for ERA Auditor. Today we could see these as consulting firms, and teams of environmental professionals performing the audits. In this way, ERA gives incitive not only for project investors to build sustainably, but also for people to find work and careers in industries that perform these audits. 

When we think of the term ‘Project Investor’ as it relates to ERA, we don’t need to assume this is one singular person. A project investor could be a city, a collaborative, a firm, anything. If we keep a broad imagination when determining what organizations make up a ‘project investor,’ we can see individuals and groups as investors too.

Capitalism relies on the exploitation of others. It requires someone to make less, so the person above them can make more. While ERA may not be the end all be all to capitalism, seeing as it does not provide a framework to uproot capitalism, it doesn’t provide way for instances of employee ownership and profits among employees. If we take an example of a farm where there are workers and a person who owns the farm, workers who maintain the farm year round and overtime improve the ecosystem integrity of the land, can register a plan for a deposit receipt. Based off of the 5-year AIV of their plan (the land in this instance), they would be compensated. In this way, workers are compensated directly for the work, bypassing an authority above them, such as the farm owner.

ERA provides the means for people who are doing ‘the work’ of increasing ecosystem integrity and resource availability, to be compensated for it. When we think about the Kellogg strike that recently ended on December 21st, if workers were being fairly compensated for their work, they would have the means to afford a living, unlike they did up until a deal was reached last month. If ‘ERA’ was implemented and workers could be directly compensated for their work, bypassing Kellogg, instances for workers rights would be more common. 

If we are thinking more broadly, thinking about forced labor, In this same ay workers can be compensated for their work. These examples are not to ignore the fact that laborer’s/workers would need the resources to register a plan and go through the du processes to receive and ERA Deposit Receipt. ERA may not solve capitalism, but can provide instances of workers’ rights and equal opportunity , not just on the front of providing t incentive to work in green industries, but also on the front of anyone being able to receive a deposit receipt.


With ERA, money does not have to “trickle down” as it is designed to do in the capitalist system today. “Trickle down theory” as it is today does not work, because tax cuts for corporations are not resulting in more employment. Tax cuts are routinely pocketed by the wealthy, and not put towards the economy (Amadeo, 2021). The monetary system is reserved for the elite. Few working class individuals become wealthy and upward mobility is declining (Rank and Eppard, 2017). 

ERA allows anyone to invest and does not utilize Trickle Down Theory or a fundamentally capitalist system. In this way, there is a case for ERA as it relates to social justice. If we think of ‘social justice’ as a myriad of things including wealth distribution, privilege within society, and opportunity that are influenced by colonization, slavery, class struggle, and capitalism, then ERA presents a way to provide justice to those who have been historically disenfranchised in the workplace.




